
# Naev Project Website

The website has been redesigned to be all static html generated by [nanoc](https://nanoc.ws). The website consists of many difference source files that can be compiled to a combination of binary elements, html files, css files, and javascript code. This approach allows to use most of the complexity of dynamic websites, while still keeping the website itself static, bypassing all security issues.

## Dependencies

Dependencies are in `Gemfile` and can be installed using [bundler](https://bundler.io/) with:

```
bundle install
```

## Compilation

A `Makefile` is provided to do most simple tasks.

To compile the website you can use the following command:

```
make
```

This will generate the output directory `output/` containing all the website data.

## Viewing the Website

You can view the website directly by looking at the output directory `output/` with most browsers. However, it is generally easier to start a local web server with the following command:

```
make view
```

This command will launch a web server on `localhost:3000` allowing for quick and easy testing of the website.

## Writing a blarg post

To write a blarg post it is as simple as creating a file in `content/blarg/`. Please note that the filename should be `YYYY-MM-DD_text.md` where `YYYY` is the year of the post, `MM` is the month of the post, and `DD` is the day of the post.

When writing a blarg post, make sure you include the following at the start of your markdown file.

```
---
title: Title (This can be whatever you want)
author: Name (Your name here)
---
```

Blarg posts are written in [markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) and is fairly straight forward to do.

### Using images

If you wish to use images you have to separately put them in `content/imgs/blarg/`. For the sake of organization, please sort images by YYYY/MM e.g. `content/imgs/blarg/YYYY/MM`.
You can reference them in the post with the inline ruby code `<%= @items['/imgs/blarg/FILENAME'].path %>` where `FILENAME` is replaced by the name of the file. This expression will be converted to the file path when compiling.


