---
title: 'Naev 0.12.5'
author: Naev DevTeam
tags: [ 'release' ]
blurb: The Naev DevTeam announces the release of Naev version 0.12.5
---

This is the fifth and most likely last maintenance patch of the 0.12.0 release.
It includes fixes to a major bug causing spawning ships to be much less diverse
than they should have been. With the new version you should now see all sorts
of ships all over instead of the same ones over and over.
Furthermore, in preparation for upcoming changes in libxml, we have removed
save game compression. Although Naev should still be able to load compressed
save games, it will only save them without compression from now on. From 0.13.0
onwards, and on systems using newer versions of libxml, loading compressed save
games won't be possible anymore. You'll either have to load and save with this
release, or uncompress manually.

You can get the latest version from any of the following sources:

<%= badge( "github", "0.12.4" ) %>
<%= badge( "steam" ) %>
<%= badge( "itchio" ) %>
<%= badge( "flathub" ) %>

The new version should be compatible with older save games, and will update
things as necessary.

<br>

<%= video( @items['/videos/0.12.0_trailer.webm'], "Naev 0.12.0 official trailer.", "video720p" ) %>

### Changes since 0.12.4
* Fixed bug causing lower diversity in ship spawning
* Fixed autonav not respecting shield thresholds
* Fixed AI spamming afterburners in an unhealthy way
* Removed support for save game compression as libxml 2.14 disable compression by default
* minerva/pirate3: fixed dialogue being weird if paying with tokens
* Minor typo fixes and translation updates
